‘The Autocatalytic Sprawl of Pseudorational Mastery’

​Capital as Power Essay Prize
First Prize $1000

​Information about the RECASP Essay Prize

The Review of Capital as Power (RECASP) announces an annual essay prize on the subject of capital as power. The best paper will receive a prize of $1000. A prize of $500 will be awarded to the second best contribution, while a $300 prize will be given to the third best article.

Submitted articles should not have been published in a refereed journal or book before. The particular topic is open. The paper can be theoretical, historical or empirical, and it may support or critique the capital as power framework. Winning essays will be published (with revisions, if necessary) in the Review of Capital as Power.
Eligibility

The competition is open to all.
Deadline

Papers for the 2018 prize must be received by January 31, 2019. The results will be announced by April 30th, 2018.
Guidelines

Submissions should be 6,000-12,000 words in length (including footnotes and references) and must be formatted/referenced in line with the journal’s style guidelines.

Submissions should be emailed to the Editor at tdimuzio@uow.edu.au

To ensure a blind review process, authors must submit two versions of their paper – one is the full version and the other is a blind version with all identifying references and text replaced with the square bracketed phrase [omitted for the refereeing process]. In the full version of the paper, authors should provide their name and affiliation along with a 200-word (max) biographical sketch.
Adjudication

The adjudication committee comprises the Editor and members of the editorial board. If there is more than one noteworthy paper, secondary prizes of $500 and $300 may be awarded. The committee may decide not to nominate winners for the year.
About Capital as Power

The framework of capital as power offers a radical alternative to both liberal and Marxist political economies. In this framework, capital is viewed not as a productive economic entity, but as the central power institution of capitalist society at large, while capitalism as a whole is seen not as mode of production and consumption, but as a mode of power.
About the Review of Capital as Power

The Review of Capital as Power is a peer-reviewed, open-access journal sponsored by the University of Wollongong, Australia. The purpose of the journal is to critically theorize, historicize and empirically research capitalism as a conflictual mode of power. The area of inquiry is wide open, and we welcome big-picture contributions as well more focused research.
