The framework of ‘capital as power’ offers a radical alternative to both liberal and Marxist political economies. In this framework, capital is viewed not as a productive economic entity, but as the central power institution of capitalist society at large, while capitalism as a whole is seen not as mode of production and consumption, but as a mode of power.

The purpose of RECASP is to critically theorize, historicize and empirically research capital as power and capitalism as a conflictual mode of power. The area of inquiry is wide open, and we welcome big-picture contributions as well more focused research. Broader studies may seek to address questions such as the following:

    How does power bear on accumulation, and how does it get capitalized?
    What are the historical roots of capital as power, and how do these roots alter the way we understand the origins of capitalism?
    What are the ideological and theoretical underpinnings of the capitalist mode of power?
    How has capitalization evolved and mutated?
    What are the qualitative forms of power in capitalism, and how do they compare to those that characterized earlier modes of power?
    How does capitalism convert qualities into quantities?
    What are the limits of capitalized power?
    How is capitalized power resisted and opposed, and can it be reformed or overthrown?
    Can these questions be addressed by mainstream and heterodox theories of capitalism – and if so, how do their answers differ from those offered by the theory of capital as power?

We are also interested in concrete areas of inquiry related to these broader questions. Suggested topics include:

    Finance as the capitalist architecture of power
    War and accumulation – the capitalization of systemic violence
    Capitalist power and labour – from proletarianization and wages to productivity and organization
    The techniques of capitalist power, the power of capitalist techniques
    International and regional conflicts and the capitalization of power
    Capitalist and democratic accounting, including the history of discounting and its possible alternatives
    Power and price formation – from local to global markets
    The psychology of capitalist power
    The state as a locus of capitalization – from taxes and the law to ideology and violence
    Crises of capitalist power
    Capitalized power and nature – from genetic engineering, to energy, to the biosphere
    Comparative modes of power: ancient and feudal, communist and fascist, capitalist and beyond
    Capital as power versus ‘primitive accumulation’ – dispossession, co-option and genocide
    The power dimensions of ‘immaterial’ capitalism – from leisure and fear to knowledge and ideology
    Alternative visions for a de-capitalized society

In the interests of advancing open knowledge, all of our articles are available for free online.
